add release notes 2.2 (#847)
kyma-project/website: content/blog-posts/2022-05-05-release-notes-2.2/index.md

The changes will be introduced gradually. We plan to provide as much automigration as possible to ensure a smooth growth of Kyma API Gateway. This is just an intial information, no action is required.

## CLI

### Removed support for Kyma 1.x

As announced in the Kyma 2.0 release notes, starting from the version 2.2, Kyma CLI no longer supports Kyma 1.x versions. All the deprecated commands have been removed and are no longer available: 

- `kyma install`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma deploy`
- `kyma upgrade`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma deploy`
- `kyma console`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma dashboard`
- `kyma provision minikube`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma provision k3d`

## Eventing

### Improved Eventing backend CR status

> With Kyma 2.2, we have made the Eventing backend CR status more verbose. We've replaced two of the three booleans, `publisherProxyReady` and `subscriptionControllerReady`, with the Kubernetes conditions. The `eventingReady` boolean remains unchanged.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have made the Eventing backend CR status more verbose. We've replaced two of the three booleans, `publisherProxyReady` and `subscriptionControllerReady`, with the Kubernetes conditions. The `eventingReady` boolean remains unchanged.
```

## Observability

### Improved documentation on limitations

We added a new section outlining the limits of the shipped monitoring stack running on the production profile with the default settings. Read [Monitoring](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.2/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-01-monitoring-in-kyma/#limitations) for more information.

### Cleanup of rules and dashboards

We've continued to clean up rules and dashboards. Several rules for Kubernetes introduced by Kyma itself have been removed, as they overlapped with the community-based rules. With that, the monitoring chart is fully based on the rules provided by the community upstream chart. Also, one more Kubernetes-related Grafana dashboard called **Kyma / Pods** has been removed, as it overlapped with the existing dashboards.

### Complete Istio metrics

The Istio metrics setup now follows the approach recommended by Istio and provides all Istio metrics as aggregations over workload. Read [Observability Best Practicies](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/best-practices/observability/) for more information.

## Serverless

### Overrides for the Function runtime image

> With Kyma 2.2, we've extended the definition of the Function custom resource. Now it allows you to override the base image of the Serverless runtime with a custom Docker image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've extended the definition of the Function custom resource. Now you can override the base image of the Serverless runtime with a custom Docker image.
```

 
You may need this feature if you want to build your Functions on top of a runtime with tooling that is not included in the default Alpine-based runtime (for example, the GCC compiler). 
 
Remember that, if you use a custom base image for your Functions, you are responsible for scanning and assessing any potential risks related to commonly known vulnerabilities that are potentially exploitable.
 
There is a dedicated [example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/custom-serverless-runtime-image) defining a custom runtime and a [tutorial](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/03-tutorials/00-serverless/svls-13-override-runtime-image) explaining how to use it in your Functions. 

## Service Mesh

### Revert to distroless Istio images provided by Istio

With the 2.2 Kyma release, both [Istio control plane and data plane](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/) again use distroless images provided by Istio.

### Istio upgraded to 1.13.2

> With this release, we've upgraded Istio from 1.12.3 to 1.13.2. For more details on the introduced changes, read the official [Istio 1.13.2 release notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.13.x/announcing-1.13.2/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've upgraded Istio from 1.12.3 to 1.13.2. For more details on the introduced changes, read the official [Istio 1.13.2 release notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.13.x/announcing-1.13.2/).
```

---
title: "Kyma 2.2"
author:
  name: "Grzegorz Karaluch, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes 
type: release
releaseTag: "2.2.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-22"
---

> Not so long ago in a galaxy not so far away, there was a friendly kingdom of Kyma-land ruled by king Kyma the Wise. The king once said: “It is time to improve our kingdom, so that everyone can lead even happier lives”. As the king has never made an empty promise, he introduced many features, such as complete setup of the Istio metrics, Istio upgrade to 1.13.2, overriding Function runtime image and improved Eventing backened CR status. Read more, if you want to learn about other ideas the king came up with!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Not so long ago in a galaxy not so far away, there was a friendly kingdom of Kyma-land ruled by king Kyma the Wise. The king once said: “It is time to improve our kingdom so that we all can lead even happier lives”. As the king had never made an empty promise, he introduced many features, such as a complete setup of the Istio metrics, Istio upgrade to 1.13.2, overriding Function runtime image and improved Eventing backend CR status. Read more, if you want to learn about other ideas the king came up with!
```

- I love the intro! ❤️ 
- There shouldn't be a comma before `so` if it means `in order to`.
- `Everyone` agrees with singular forms, `all` agrees with plural forms, so `everyone` should lead **an even happier life**, just one :) Or `we all can lead even happier lives`
- `The king has never made (...) so he introduced` > It's a reason-cause relationship, so we need Past Perfect here. `The king had never made` #

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [API Gateway](#api-gateway) - ORY stack deprecation
- [CLI](#cli) - Removed support for Kyma 1.x
- [Eventing](#eventing) - Improved Eventing Backend CR status
- [Observability](#observability) - Improved documentation on limitiations, cleanup of rules and dashboards, complete Istio metrics

> - [Serverless](#serverless) - Overrides for function runtime image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [Serverless](#serverless) - Overrides for the Function runtime image
```

- [Service Mesh](#service-mesh) - Revert to distroless Istio images provided by Istio, Istio upgraded to 1.13.2

## API Gateway

### ORY stack deprecation note

Due to the growing demand for a closer integration with our Service Mesh Istio implementation, we decided to gradually switch from the current implementation behind Kyma API Gateway ([ORY Hydra](https://www.ory.sh/docs/hydra) and [ORY Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper)) to [Authentication](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/security/#authentication) and [Authorization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/security/#authorization) features that Istio provides out of the box. With this change, we introduce more options in terms of configuration, flexibility, and performance to our customers. Additionally, we want to keep the Kyma stack as lean as possible. 

> The changes will be introduced gradually. We plan to provide as much automigration as possible to ensure a smooth growth of Kyma API Gateway. This is just an intial information, no actions are required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The changes will be introduced gradually. We plan to provide as much automigration as possible to ensure a smooth growth of Kyma API Gateway. This is just an intial information, no action is required.
```
It's usually singular.

## CLI

### Removed support for Kyma 1.x

> As announced in the Kyma 2.0 release notes, with version 2.2 the Kyma CLI no longer supports Kyma 1.x versions. All deprecated commands have been removed. 
> 
> The following commands are no longer available: 
> 
> - `kyma install`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma deploy`
> - `kyma upgrade`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma deploy`
> - `kyma console`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma dashboard`
> - `kyma provision minikube`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma provision k3d`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As announced in the Kyma 2.0 release notes, starting from the version 2.2, Kyma CLI no longer supports Kyma 1.x versions. All the deprecated commands have been removed and are no longer available: 

- `kyma install`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma deploy`
- `kyma upgrade`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma deploy`
- `kyma console`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma dashboard`
- `kyma provision minikube`: Kyma 2 equivalent is `kyma provision k3d`
```

I'd merge the two lines, they're kind of a duplication.

## Eventing

### Improved Eventing backend CR status

> With Kyma 2.2, we have made the Eventing backend CR status more verbose. We've replaced two (`publisherProxyReady` and `subscriptionControllerReady`) of the three booleans with the Kubernetes conditions. The `eventingReady` boolean remains unchanged.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Kyma 2.2, we have made the Eventing backend CR status more verbose. We've replaced two of the three booleans, `publisherProxyReady` and `subscriptionControllerReady`, with the Kubernetes conditions. The `eventingReady` boolean remains unchanged.
```

There's a tendency in Kyma content to avoid parentheses. Here's an alternative.

## Observability

### Improved documentation on limitations

> We added a new section outlining the limits of the shipped monitoring stack, running on the production profile with the default settings. Read [Monitoring](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-01-monitoring-in-kyma/#limitations) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We added a new section outlining the limits of the shipped monitoring stack running on the production profile with the default settings. Read [Monitoring](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.2/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-01-monitoring-in-kyma/#limitations) for more information.
```

- The info after the comma is necessary for the correct/full context, right? So there shouldn't be a comma. 
- I know the link isn't available yet, but you can't link to main, 'cause when someone merges new changes, the link from RNs is going to lead to misleading information. You should always link to documentation in the specific Kyma version that the Release Notes were prepared for.

### Cleanup of rules and dashboards

> We continue to cleanup rules and dashboards. Several rules for Kubernetes introduced by Kyma itself were removed, as they were overlapping with the community-based rules. With that, the monitoring chart is fully based on the rules provided by the community upstream chart. Also, one more Kubernetes-related Grafana dashboard called "Kyma / Pods" was removed, as it overlapped with the existing dashboards.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We've continued to clean up rules and dashboards. Several rules for Kubernetes introduced by Kyma itself have been removed, as they overlapped with the community-based rules. With that, the monitoring chart is fully based on the rules provided by the community upstream chart. Also, one more Kubernetes-related Grafana dashboard called **Kyma / Pods** has been removed, as it overlapped with the existing dashboards.
```
- `we continue` > `we've continued` - these are Release Notes, we want to announce what we've done (done deal, past), not talk about current and future endeavours 
- `cleanup` is a noun, `clean up` is a verb
- `were removed` > `have been removed` to conform to the style in the other notes above
- `were overlapping` > `overlapped` - you'd normally use Past Simple for past events, unless you want to emphasise that something was in progress at a certain point in time

### Complete Istio metrics

> The Istio metrics setup now follows the recommended approach of Istio and provides all Istio metrics as aggregations over workload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Istio metrics setup now follows the approach recommended by Istio and provides all Istio metrics as aggregations over workload.
```
I'm not sure if I got it correctly. Can you check with @strekm / @a-thaler if that's what they meant? 
If not, what is `the recommended approach of Istio` supposed to mean? Recommended by whom? Should it be `to Istio`?

## Serverless

### Overrides for the Function runtime image

> With Kyma 2.2, we extend the definition of the Function custom resource. Now it allows you to override base image of the serverless runtime with a custom docker image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Kyma 2.2, we've extended the definition of the Function custom resource. Now it allows you to override the base image of the Serverless runtime with a custom Docker image.
```
- Again, make sure to stick to one style throughout the whole RN post
- Pay attention to proper names and capitalization

> You may need this feature if you want to build your Functions on top of runtime with tooling that is not included in the default alpine based runtime (i.e. GCC compiler). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may need this feature if you want to build your Functions on top of a runtime with tooling that is not included in the default Alpine-based runtime (for example, the GCC compiler). 
```

 
Remember that, if you use a custom base image for your Functions, you are responsible for scanning and assessing any potential risks related to commonly known vulnerabilities that are potentially exploitable.
 
There is a dedicated [example](https://github.com/kyma-project/examples/tree/main/custom-serverless-runtime-image) defining a custom runtime and a [tutorial](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/main/03-tutorials/00-serverless/svls-13-override-runtime-image) explaining how to use it in your Functions. 

## Service Mesh

### Revert to distroless Istio images provided by Istio

> With the 2.2 Kyma release, both [Istio control plane and data plane](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/) use distroless images provided by Istio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the 2.2 Kyma release, both [Istio control plane and data plane](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/) again use distroless images provided by Istio.
```

or 

```
With the 2.2 Kyma release, we've gone back to using distroless images provided by Istio for both [Istio control plane and data plane](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/deployment/architecture/).
```

### Istio upgraded to 1.13.2

> With this release, we upgraded Istio from 1.12.3 to 1.13.2. For more details on the introduced changes, read the official [Istio 1.13.2 release notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.13.x/announcing-1.13.2/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this release, we've upgraded Istio from 1.12.3 to 1.13.2. For more details on the introduced changes, read the official [Istio 1.13.2 release notes](https://istio.io/latest/news/releases/1.13.x/announcing-1.13.2/).
```

---
title: "Kyma 2.2"
author:
  name: "Grzegorz Karaluch, Technical Writer @Kyma"
tags:
  - release-notes 
type: release
releaseTag: "2.2.0"
redirectFrom:
  - "/blog/release-notes-22"
---

Not so long ago in a galaxy not so far away, there was a friendly kingdom of Kyma-land ruled by king Kyma the Wise. The king once said: “It is time to improve our kingdom so that we all can lead even happier lives”. As the king had never made an empty promise, he introduced many features, such as a complete setup of the Istio metrics, Istio upgrade to 1.13.2, overriding Function runtime image and improved Eventing backend custom resource (CR) status. Read more if you want to learn about other ideas the king came up with!

<!-- overview -->

See the overview of all changes in this release:

- [API Gateway](#api-gateway) - ORY stack deprecation
- [CLI](#cli) - Removed support for Kyma 1.x
- [Eventing](#eventing) - Improved Eventing backend CR status

> - [Observability](#observability) - Improved documentation on limitiations, cleanup of rules and dashboards, complete Istio metrics, minor upgrade of Fluent Bit, minor upgrade of Kiali

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [Observability](#observability) - Improved documentation on monitoring limitations, cleanup of rules and dashboards, complete Istio metrics, minor upgrade of Fluent Bit, minor upgrade of Kiali
```

- [Serverless](#serverless) - Overrides for the Function runtime image
- [Service Mesh](#service-mesh) - Revert to distroless Istio images provided by Istio, Istio upgraded to 1.13.2

## API Gateway

### ORY stack deprecation note

Due to the growing demand for a closer integration with our Service Mesh Istio implementation, we decided to gradually switch from the current implementation behind Kyma API Gateway ([ORY Hydra](https://www.ory.sh/docs/hydra) and [ORY Oathkeeper](https://www.ory.sh/docs/oathkeeper)) to [Authentication](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/security/#authentication) and [Authorization](https://istio.io/latest/docs/concepts/security/#authorization) features that Istio provides out of the box. With this change, we introduce more options in terms of configuration, flexibility, and performance to our customers. Additionally, we want to keep the Kyma stack as lean as possible. 

> The changes will be introduced gradually. We plan to provide as much automigration as possible to ensure a smooth growth of Kyma API Gateway. This is just an intial information, no action is required.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The changes will be introduced gradually. We plan to provide as much automated migration as possible to ensure the smooth growth of Kyma API Gateway. This is just initial information, no action is required.
```

## CLI

### Removed support for Kyma 1.x

As announced in the Kyma 2.0 release notes, starting from the version 2.2, Kyma CLI no longer supports Kyma 1.x versions. All the deprecated commands have been removed and are no longer available: 

- `kyma install`: Kyma 2.x equivalent is `kyma deploy`
- `kyma upgrade`: Kyma 2.x equivalent is `kyma deploy`
- `kyma console`: Kyma 2.x equivalent is `kyma dashboard`
- `kyma provision minikube`: Kyma 2.x equivalent is `kyma provision k3d`

## Eventing

### Improved Eventing backend CR status

We have made the Eventing backend CR status more verbose. We've replaced two of the three booleans, `publisherProxyReady` and `subscriptionControllerReady`, with the Kubernetes conditions. The `eventingReady` boolean remains unchanged.

## Observability

> ### Improved documentation on limitations

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Improved documentation on monitoring limitations
```

> We added a new section outlining the limits of the shipped monitoring stack running on the production profile with the default settings. Read [Monitoring](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.2/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-01-monitoring-in-kyma/#limitations) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We added a new section outlining the limits of the shipped monitoring stack running on the production profile with the default settings. Read [Monitoring limitations](https://kyma-project.io/docs/kyma/2.2/01-overview/main-areas/observability/obsv-01-monitoring-in-kyma/#limitations) for more information.
```

### Cleanup of rules and dashboards

> We've continued to clean up rules and dashboards. Several rules for Kubernetes introduced by Kyma itself have been removed, as they overlapped with the community-based rules. With that, the monitoring chart is fully based on the rules provided by the community upstream chart. Also, one more Kubernetes-related Grafana dashboard called **Kyma / Pods** has been removed, as it overlapped with the existing dashboards.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We've continued to clean up Prometheus rules and Grafana dashboards. Several rules for Kubernetes introduced by Kyma itself have been removed, as they overlapped with the community-based rules. With that, the monitoring chart is fully based on the rules provided by the community upstream chart. Also, one more Kubernetes-related Grafana dashboard called **Kyma / Pods** has been removed, as it overlapped with the existing dashboards.
```

### Complete Istio metrics

> The Istio metrics setup now follows the approach recommended by Istio and provides all Istio metrics as aggregations over workload. Read [Observability Best Practicies](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/best-practices/observability/) for more information.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Istio metrics setup coming with the Kyma monitoring feature now follows the approach recommended by Istio and provides all Istio metrics as aggregations over workload. Read [Observability Best Practicies](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/best-practices/observability/) for more information.
```

> The Istio metrics setup, coming with the Kyma monitoring feature, now follows the approach recommended by Istio and provides all Istio metrics as aggregations over workload. Read [Observability Best Practicies](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/best-practices/observability/) for more information.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Istio metrics setup, coming with the Kyma monitoring feature, now follows the approach recommended by Istio and provides all Istio metrics as aggregations over workload. Read [Observability Best Practices](https://istio.io/latest/docs/ops/best-practices/observability/) for more information.
```

### Minor upgrade of Fluent Bit

The Fluent Bit log collector, included in the Kyma logging stack, has been updated to the 1.9 release series. It brings major improvements in stability and performance.

### Minor upgrade of Kiali

> Kiali has been been upgraded to version 1.49, and is fully supporting Istio 1.13.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kiali has been upgraded to version 1.49 and is fully supporting Istio 1.13.
```
